Title: British Grand Prix staying at Silverstone until 2034 | RACER
The British Grand Prix will remain at Silverstone until at least the 2034 season following the signing of a 10-year contract extension. 
Given Silverstone’s status as the home of the first ever Formula 1 World Championship race in 1950, it extends the venue’s presence on the calendar into its ninth decade. While there have been regular rumors of some form of interest in hosting a grand prix in London, there has not been a serious challenger to Silverstone’s place on the calendar for a number of years and F1 CEO Stefano Domenicali says it’s another sign of F1 valuing its history after a recent extension for Suzuka.
“I am delighted to announce that the British Grand Prix will remain on the calendar for ten more years with this agreement, “ Domenicali said. “Silverstone is an iconic venue at the heart of F1 history and as it approaches its ninth decade hosting grands prix, the event continues to attract fans from around the world for fantastic racing on track and the amazing fan experience off it.
“I would like to thank Peter Digby and the BRDC (British Racing Drivers Club), as well as Stuart Pringle and the whole Silverstone team for their hard work and dedication to take the British Grand Prix to new heights and I look forward to working closely with them as they look to further improve the facilities and fan experience over the next ten years.”
Digby is the chairman of the BRDC and says the stability provided by the long-term new deal allows Silverstone to push ahead with further investments and developments.
“I am delighted we have secured a ten-year extension to host the Formula 1 British Grand Prix at Silverstone,” Digby said. “This contractual security will provide a solid base for the further development of the venue as we continue to improve and transform the circuit into a year-round international motorsport and leisure destination.
“The 2024 Formula 1 season will start with nine BRDC Full and Honorary members on the grid and the importance of our continued support of young drivers is particularly evidenced by the success of Lewis [Hamilton], Lando [Norris], George [Russell] and Alex [Albon].”
This year’s British Grand Prix takes place on July 7, as the final race of a triple-header also including Spain and Austria.